---
layout: default
---

## C1 - Docker Image for Python
#### Mar 23th, 2024 at Canberra, ACT, Australia
Recently I packed up a python program into a Docker image. It took me roughly 3hrs to set up a fully functional docker image for distribution (thanks to [docker cached layers](https://docs.docker.com/build/guide/layers/)!!!).

Here, I'm listing the necessary steps that might help some newbies like me.

### Directory Hierarchy
As an example, suppose we have a python program `prog` consists python scripts under `src/`, libraries under `lib/`, together with `requirements.txt` for pip (or `environment.yml` for conda), we can format `prog` as the following.

```
    prog/
        |-src/
            |-main.py
        |-lib/
        |-environment.yml
        |-Dockerfile
```

### Dockerfile
`Dockerfile` is a configuration file to build a docker image, where we can find the reference [here](https://docs.docker.com/reference/dockerfile/). Basically, here are several keywords might be helpful for creating the `Dockerfile`.

* `FROM`: import/base on another built image. e.g., `FROM ubuntu:latest`
* `COPY`: copy a file or directory into docker image. e.g., `COPY hello/ /opt/hello`
* `ENV`: set environmental variable. e.g., `ENV PATH "/opt/conda/bin:${PATH}"`
* `RUN`: run command(s). e.g., `RUN ls -l`
* `ENTRYPOINT`: run command(s) everytime the container get executed as the starting point. e.g., `ENTRYPOINT [ "ls" ]

An example of `Dockerfile` is given as below.

```sh
FROM ubuntu:latest
MAINTAINER WHOAM I <whoami@where.com>

RUN apt-get -y update
RUN apt-get -y install curl

# check archs
RUN echo $(uname -a)
RUN mkdir -p /opt/miniconda3

# miniconda
RUN curl https://repo.anaconda.com/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh -o /opt/miniconda3/miniconda.sh

RUN ln -s md5sum /bin/md5
RUN bash /opt/miniconda3/miniconda.sh -b -u -p /opt/conda;
RUN echo "export PATH=/opt/conda/bin:$PATH" > /etc/profile.d/conda.sh
ENV PATH "/opt/conda/bin:${PATH}"

COPY environment.yml /opt/environment.yml

# install all dependencies
RUN conda env create -f /opt/environment.yml

COPY ./prog /opt/prog

# clean up
RUN rm -rf /opt/miniconda3/
RUN apt-get remove -y --purge curl
RUN apt-get autoremove -y
RUN apt-get clean -y

ENTRYPOINT conda run -n venv python /opt/prog/src/main.py
```

### Build the image
After creating the `Dockerfile`, we can build the image via `docker build`. Before doing so, make sure docker application is started already (use `docker ps` to check). To build the image, we can traverse to the directory `prog/` and execute the command.
```sh
$ docker build --platform=<platform> -t <image_name> .
```

Where `<platform>` should be the destination platform, such as `linux/amd64`, `linux/arm64`, or `darwin/amd64`. We can supply multiple and connected by comma as well. `<image_name>` is optional, and a random string will be provided if `<image_name>` is not given. We can check the image name and id via `docker image ls`.


### Run the image
Right now, we have created a docker image. we can run `docker buildx prune` with `y` to cleanup all the caches generated during the image build step. Then, we can run `docker run` to create a container and load the image, as follows.

```sh
docker run -w /opt -v $(pwd)/src:/opt/dst -it --rm <image_name> args
```

Here, `-w/--workdir` specifies the docker working directory, `-i/--interactive` to keep STDIN open even if not attached, `-t/--tty` to allocate a pseudo-TTY, and `--rm` to delete the created container after completion. 

`-v/--volume` is the option to bind mount the volume from local directory to a directory within the docker. As an example, `-v $(pwd)/src:/opt/dst` bind mount the local directory `$(pwd)/src` to the docker directory `/opt/dst` within the container. When we create/modify/delete a file within one of them, it will be reflected/shared by the other. In this case, when our program generates output files, we can place them into `/opt/dst`. After program completion, they can be found under `$(pwd)/src`. We can also put input files into `$(pwd)/src` before `docker run` as well. `args` are the arguments passing to the command specified after `ENTRYPOINT` in `Dockerfile`, which are served as command-line arguments.

Be mindful that the filesystem in docker is independent to the local machine. Thus, any shared files or directories must be bind mounted via `-v`.

Now, you should have a portable docker image, enjoy it!